Good Links:

https://dearborn.com
https://www.bre.ca.gov
www.car.org
www.trueforms.com
www.hcd.ca.gov


Unit 1
========

Keywords:

1.	associate licensee 
2.	blind advertising 
3.	broker-officer
4.	bulk transfer of goods 
5.	Business and Professions Code 

6.	business opportunity 
7.	California Bureau of Real Estate(CalBRE) 
8.	caveat emptor => let the buyer beware
9.	certificate of status 
10.	codes

11.	fictitious business name statement
12.	franchise 
13.	manufactured home 
14.	mobilehome dealer 
15.	mortgage loan brokerage 

A real estate brokerage can also act as a "mortgage loan brokerage"

16.	mortgage loan originator (MLO) 
17.	Prepaid Rental Listing Service (PRLS) 
18.	real estate broker => For purposes of the Real Estate Law, a salesperson is always considered the employee of the broker. 
This means that the broker is held accountable for the salesper- son’s conduct in performing business activities. 
For compensation, tax, and other purposes, a salesperson can be treated as either an employee or an independent contractor 

A Prepaid Rental Listing Service (PRLS) is a business that supplies prospective tenants with listings of residential 
real property on payment of a fee collected at the same time or in advance of when the listings are supplied. 
Anyone licensed as a real estate broker may conduct a PRLS business without obtaining a sepa- rate PRLS license. 
The real estate broker must use a contract with the tenant/ client that is approved in advance by CalBRE. 
Either the broker or a salesperson employed by the broker must be designated to supervise the PRLS activities.

19.	real estate brokerage => Office in which at least one broker works
20.	Real Estate Education and Research Fund

21.	Real Estate Law
22.	real estate salesperson => A salesperson’s license is activated only after the name of the employing broker is 
provided to CalBRE. The broker and salesperson are required by the Real Estate Law to have a "written agreement".

If the real estate agent displays or offers for sale two or more registered mobilehomes at 
the agent’s place of business, the agent must also be licensed as a "mobilehome dealer".

The requirements for that license, which is obtained from the Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD), 
are in the Health and Safety Code. Information also can be found at the HCD website, www.hcd.ca.gov.

23.	Recovery Account 
24.	Regulations of the Real Estate Commissioner => The primary purpose of both the Real Estate Law and the 
Regulations of the Real Estate Commissioner is to protect the members of 
the public with whom real estate licensees come into contact in their business activities.

Screens candidates for licensing;
■ prepares subdivision public reports;
■ conducts licensee disciplinary action;
■ investigates nonlicensees performing activities for which a license is required; and
■ regulates nonexempt franchises and real property securities.

25.	restricted license 

26.	sales associate
27.	Uniform Commercial Code

Main Points:

1. The state’s police power allows it to license real estate agents. The state’s licensing ability 
is an exercise of its police power to enact laws within constitutional limits to promote the public health, safety, 
and general welfare.
2. In California, there are over 400,000 real estate licensees, more than in any other state.
3. The California Association of REALTORS® is headquartered in Los Angeles and found at www.car.org. 
The forms of Professional Publishing, Inc., can be found at www.trueforms.com.

